---
layout: post
title:  "Set Family and Empty Set"
date:   2018-09-14 08:00:05 +0800
categories: analysis
use_math: true
tags: analysis set emptyset 
---


### Set Family

A `set family` is a set where its elements are also sets. For example, for sets \\(A_1,A_2,A_3\\)
\\[A=\\{A_1,A_2,A_3\\}\\]
is a set family.

A `index family` is a set family where its elements can be referred with indices, such as the set \\(A\\) above.
\\[A=\\{A_i\| i\in I\\}, I=\\{1,2,3\\}\\]
In such case, we call \\(i\\) an index, and \\(I\\) as an index set.


For a family of sets \\(F:=\\{A\_i \| i\in I\\}\\) (note that unless the index is defined, left definition is also valid for \\(I\\) with uncountable cardinality), we define
* `Intersection`: \\(\bigcup F:=\mathop\{\bigcup\}\_\{S\in F\}S := \mathop\{\bigcup\}\_\{i\in I\}A\_i := \\{x \| \exists i\in I : x\in A_i\\} \\) 
* `Union`: \\(\bigcap F:=\mathop\{\bigcap\}\_\{S\in F\}S := \mathop\{\bigcap\}\_\{i\in I\}A\_i := \\{x \| \forall i\in I : x\in A_i\\} \\) 

__Theorem:__ De morgan's law also holds here.
\\[\left(\mathop\{\bigcup\}\_\{i\in I\}A\_i\right)^c=\bigcap\_\{i\in I\}A\_i^c\\]
Proof: using the negation rule of the qualifier,
\\[x\in\left(\mathop\{\bigcup\}\_\{i\in I\}A\_i\right)^c \Longleftrightarrow \sim\left(\mathop\{\bigcup\}\_\{i\in I\}A\_i\right)\\]
\\[\quad\quad\Longleftrightarrow\sim\exists i\in I : x\in A\_i\\]
\\[\quad\quad\Longleftrightarrow\forall i\in I : x\in A\_i^c\\]
\\[\quad\quad\Longleftrightarrow\bigcap\_\{i\in I\}A\_i^c\\]


When \\(I\equiv\emptyset\\), following holds.
* \\(\mathop\{\bigcap\}\_\{i\in I\}A\_i=U\\): When we take intersection of more less sets, the resulting set becomes more larger.  
`Proof`:  
\\[\forall x\in U,\quad x\in \mathop\{\bigcap\}\_\{i\in I\}A\_i\\]
\\[\forall x\in U,\quad i\in I\quad\rightarrow\quad  x\in A\_i\\]
which is a vacously true proposition (\\(i\in I\\) is false)
* \\(\mathop\{\bigcup\}\_\{i\in I\}A\_i=\emptyset\\): When we take union of more less sets, the resulting set becomes smaller. Taking union over the empty union must yield a set which is smaller than any other sets.  
`Proof`:  
Taking De Morgan's rule of above yields desired result.


Next:  

