---
layout: post
title:  "BMH - ch2"
date:   2019-02-15 07:00:05 +0800
categories: analysis
use_math: true
tags: bayesian python
---
reference  - <a href="https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/CamDavidsonPilon/Probabilistic-Programming-and-Bayesian-Methods-for-Hackers/blob/master/Chapter2_MorePyMC/Ch2_MorePyMC_PyMC3.ipynb" target="_blank">link (github ipynb)</a>

#### Bayesian inference is 
* simply updating your beliefs after considering new evidence.
* differs from more traditional statistical inference by __preserving uncertainty.__
* interprets probability as measure of believability in an event, that is, __how confident__ we are in an event occurring.
* alternative interpretation of probability: `Frequentist`  
assumes that probability is the long-run frequency of events
* Bayesians interpret a `probability` as __measure of belief, or confidence__, of an event occurring, based on (observed) information.

#### prior / posterior
* Prior \\(P(A)\\): coin toss, head/tail 50%
* Posterior \\(P(A\| X)\\): after seeing certain amount of coin tosses, our belief over the coin toss.
* As we acquire more and more instances of evidence, our prior belief is washed out by the new evidence. This is to be expected.

#### \\(N\rightarrow\infty\\)
* As we gather an infinite amount of evidence, say as \\(N\rightarrow\infty\\), our Bayesian results (often) align with frequentist results.
* On the other hand, for small N, inference is much more unstable: frequentist estimates have more variance and larger confidence intervals. This is where Bayesian analysis excels. 
* By introducing a prior, and returning probabilities (instead of a scalar estimate), we preserve the uncertainty that reflects the instability of statistical inference of a small N dataset. (?)

#### Frequentist methods
* least squares linear regression, LASSO regression, and expectation-maximization algorithms

### Bayes' Theorem
Updating our belief is done via the following equation, known as Bayes' Theorem
\\[P(A\| X) = \frac\{P(X\| A)P(A)\}\{P(X)\} = \\]

Next:  

